# Data Source: honeycombio_auth_metadata

The `honeycombio_auth_metadata` data source retreives information about the API key used to authenticate the provider.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "honeycombio_auth_metadata" "current" {}

output "team_name" {
  value = data.honeycombio_auth_metadata.current.team.name
}

output "environment_slug" {
  value = data.honeycombio_auth_metadata.current.environment.slug
} 

output "slo_management_access" {
  value = data.honeycombio_auth_metadata.current.api_key_access.slos
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Read-Only

- `api_key_access` (Block, Read-only) The authorizations granted for the API key used to authenticate the provider. See https://docs.honeycomb.io/working-with-your-data/settings/api-keys/ for more information. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--api_key_access))
- `environment` (Block, Read-only) Information about the Environment the API key is scoped to. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--environment))
- `team` (Block, Read-only) Information about the Team the API key is scoped to. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--team))

<a id="nestedblock--api_key_access"></a>
### Nested Schema for `api_key_access`

Read-Only:

- `boards` (Boolean) Whether this API key can create and manage Boards.
- `columns` (Boolean) Whether this API key can create and manage Queries, Columns, Derived Columns, and Query Annotations.
- `datasets` (Boolean) Whether this API key can create and manage Datasets.
- `events` (Boolean) Whether this API key can send events to Honeycomb.
- `markers` (Boolean) Whether this API key can create and manage Markers.
- `queries` (Boolean) Whether this API key can execute existing Queries via the Query Data API.
- `recipients` (Boolean) Whether this API key can create and manage Recipients.
- `slos` (Boolean) Whether this API key can create and manage SLOs and Burn Alerts.
- `triggers` (Boolean) Whether this API key can create and manage Triggers.


<a id="nestedblock--environment"></a>
### Nested Schema for `environment`

Read-Only:

- `classic` (Boolean) Whether the Environment is a Classic Environment.
- `name` (String) The name of the Environment. For Classic environments, this will be null.
- `slug` (String) The slug of the Environment. For Classic environments, this will be null.


<a id="nestedblock--team"></a>
### Nested Schema for `team`

Read-Only:

- `name` (String) The name of the Team.
- `slug` (String) The slug of the Team.
