# Resource: honeycombio_api_key

Creates a Honeycomb API Key.
For more information about API Keys, check out [Best Practices for API Keys](https://docs.honeycomb.io/get-started/best-practices/api-keys/).

-> This resource requires the provider be configured with a Management Key with `api-keys:write` in the configured scopes.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "honeycombio_api_key" "prod_ingest" {
  name = "Production Ingest"
  type = "ingest"

  environment_id = var.environment_id

  permissions {
    create_datasets = true
  }
}

output "ingest_key" {
  value = "${honeycomb_api_key.prod_ingest.key}"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `environment_id` (String) The Environment ID the API key is scoped to.
- `name` (String) The name of the API key.
- `type` (String) The type of API key. Currently only `ingest` and `configuration` is supported.

### Optional

- `disabled` (Boolean) Whether the API key is disabled. Defaults to `false`.
- `permissions` (Block List) A configuration block setting what actions the API key can perform. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--permissions))
- `visible_to_members` (Boolean) Whether the key can be viewed by members and read-only users, or only owners.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the API Key.
- `key` (String, Sensitive) The API key formatted for use based on its type.
- `secret` (String, Sensitive) The secret portion of the API Key.

<a id="nestedblock--permissions"></a>
### Nested Schema for `permissions`

Optional:

- `create_datasets` (Boolean) Allow this ingest or configuration key to create missing datasets when sending telemetry. Defaults to `false`.
- `manage_markers` (Boolean) Allow this configuration key to manage Markers. Defaults to `false`.
- `manage_private_boards` (Boolean) Allow this configuration key to manage public boards. Defaults to `false`.
- `manage_public_boards` (Boolean) Allow this configuration key to manage public boards. Defaults to `false`.
- `manage_queries` (Boolean) Allow this configuration key to manage queries and columns. Defaults to `false`.
- `manage_recipients` (Boolean) Allow this configuration key to manage Recipients. Defaults to `false`.
- `manage_slos` (Boolean) Allow this configuration key to manage SLOs. Defaults to `false`.
- `manage_triggers` (Boolean) Allow this configuration key to manage Triggers. Defaults to `false`.
- `read_service_maps` (Boolean) Allow this configuration key to read service maps. This feature is only for enterprise users. Defaults to `false`.
- `run_queries` (Boolean) Allow this configuration key run queries. Defaults to `false`.
- `send_events` (Boolean) Allow this configuration key to send events to Honeycomb. Defaults to `false`.

## Import

API Keys cannot be imported.
